Proposal for usage of dose3-distcheck (for debian packages)
===========================================================

v2 (23/07/2010)

edos-debcheck [option] ... [filename] ... 

Checks whether all members of a set of packages, each of which is
described by a deb-control(5) stanza, are installable from the point
of view of inter-package relations expressed in the package stanzas
(depends, conflicts, and provides). Packages may be in the foreground
(in which case the tool checks installability of that package, and may
also use it to satisfy the dependencies of other packages) or in the
background (in which case the tool does not check installability of
that package but may use it to satisfy dependencies of other
packages).

The contents of the files listed on the command line constitutes the
set of foreground packages, "-" indicates that in addition foreground
package stanzas are to be read from standard input. Without any
additional options, the set of background packages is empty. Packages
may be pushed from the foreground into the background by using filter
options (see "input options" below).

By default, only the number of non-installable foreground packages is
displayed, see "output options" below for how to change this.

Options and filenames can be given in any order. In any case, any
option applies to the complete problem instance.

Options
=======

input options
-------------

-b, --background <file>
  add package stanzas from <file> to the background.  These packages
  will not be checked themselves for installability but will only be
  used to resolve dependencies. May be used multiple times.

-f, --filter <filterexpression>
  push all packages that are not matched by <filterexpression> from the
  foreground into the background.

  <filterexpression> is a list of selectors, separated by the
  character '|'. This expression matches a package when one of its
  selectors matches the package.

  A selector is either a packagename, matching all packages with exactly
  that package name, or 'source=srcname', matching all packages having 
  srcname as value of their Source field.

  Note: the set of filterexpressions will be extended for future
  releases, allowing for filtering on any field, regular expressions
  for matching strings, testing absence of fields, checking that a
  package is in the latest version, as well as combination by negation
  and logical conjunction.


output options
--------------

-f, --failures
  print the list of non-installable foreground packages.

-s, --successes
  print the list of installable foreground packages.

  It is possible to specify -f and -s together in order to obtain
  installability information for all foreground packages.

-e, --explain print an explanation; this is a consistent installation
  set for each installable foreground package when option -s is used,
  and the non-satisfiable part of the dependency and conflict clauses
  in case the package is not installable when option -f is
  used.

  Useful only in combination with at least one of the options -f and -s.

-q, --quit
  be less verbose. May be iterated.

-v, --verbose
  be more verbose. May be iterated.


misc options
------------

-h, --help
  Summary of command usage

--version
  Print version


Note: the -xml option of previous versions of edos-debcheck will be
dropped since we will move to a default output format that is both
human readable and machine parsable (YAML?)

===========================================================================


edos-builddebcheck:

the same as for edos-debcheck, except that filename parameters would
be used for source packages (which are a priori foreground) and -b
for binary packages (which are always background).
